---
layout: post
title:  "Oracle Code One 2019 Conference Picks"
date:   2019-08-26 15:00 +0800
comments: true
---

[UPDATED]: indicated that Quarkus, Micronaut, and Helidon are all new since 2017.

I'm very happy to be speaking at Oracle Code One for my first time.
Even though I have been to more than a few [JavaOnes]({{ site.url }}/blog/assets/20151027-megabadge.jpg), I've never been to its
successor.  Looking through the [content catalog](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19), here are my day by day picks.  I'm including my sessions for reference, but also picking the one I'd attend if I wasn't speaking at that timeslot.

There are 511 sessions at Oracle Code One.  Here are the 34 that look
good to me, and also my sessions.

### Monday 16 September 2019

#### 09:00 AM - 09:45 AM | Moscone South - Room 207/208 - A Dozen Cool Things You Can Do with JVM Languages [DEV3888] - [Venkat Subramaniam](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV3888)

Never miss a chance to see Venkat.  It's that simple.  Java is not the
only runtime to have multiple languages, but the language ecosystem on
the Java VM is the most diverse and vibrant of all such ecosystems.

#### 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM | Moscone North - Hall F - The Java Keynote [KEY1099] - [Georges Saab, Brian Goetz, Sharat Chander](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=KEY1099)

This is the big keynote.  Expect surprises.

#### 12:30 PM - 01:15 PM | Moscone South - Room 308 - Introducing the Oracle Extension for Visual Studio Code [DEV3241] - [Kris Rice](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV3241)

It's very nice to see Oracle picking up on Microsoft technology at the
same time as Microsoft is picking up on Oracle technology.

**TIE**

#### 12:30 PM - 01:15 PM | Moscone South - Room 305 - Bug Triage and Issue Management [BOF1292] [Elliotte Rusty Harold](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=BOF1292)

Google has a lot of code, and therefore a lot of bugs, so I can't wait
to see some tips for managing them.

**TIE**

#### 12:30 PM - 01:15 PM | Moscone South - Room 303 - Java Modules: Why and How? [DEV3873] - [Venkat Subramaniam](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV3873)

The 12:30 - 13:15 slot is insane.  I don't know who to choose.  Great
topics, famous speakers, or, in this case, both.

#### 01:30 PM - 02:15 PM | Moscone South - Room 303 - Best Practices from Java to Kubernetes: Easier and Faster [DEV2712] - [Ray Tsang](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV2712)

Ray has been covering this beat for a long time, and he knows his stuff
really well.  His delivery is crisp and uncompromising.

#### 02:30 PM - 03:15 PM | Moscone South - Room 202 - Evolving Java for the Microservice and Serverless Era [DEV2556] - [Graeme Rocher](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV2556)

Quarkus, Micronaut, Helidon are the big three Java microservices players
*new since 2017*.  This one will likely give you the Micronaut
perspective.  Take a side of Quarkus and Helidon with this and call me
in the morning.

#### 04:00 PM - 04:45 PM | Moscone South - Room 204 - Supersonic, Subatomic Java with Quarkus [DEV1799] - [Burr Sutter](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV1799)

For as long as Ray has been covering the Java Kubernetes beat, Burr has
bene covering the Java Microservices beat.  Previously with Vert.X and
now Quarkus.  A great followup to the previous session.


**TIE**

#### 04:00 PM - 04:45 PM | Moscone South - Room 203 - GraalVM Vision and Roadmap [DEV3726] - [Thomas Wuerthinger](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV3276)

This is *the* Graal talk.  I would go so far as to say that if this
conference was GraalOne (someone should make that) this would be the
keynote.

#### 05:00 PM - 06:45 PM | Moscone South - Room 209 - Ignite Session [Lots of people](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=IGN6313)

This session usually features beer.  Also, the talks are fun.  I did one
in 2017 about building a Theremin.

**TIE**

#### 05:00 PM - 07:00 PM | Moscone West - Room 3024B - Building Microservices with Helidon - BYOL [HOL5409] - [Laird Nelson, Joe Dipol,Romain Grecourt, & co.](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=HOL5409)

The 17:00 -19:00 slot is also chock packed with lots of other good
talks, though.  This one would round out the Java Microservices
trifecta.

#### 06:00 PM - 06:45 PM | Moscone South - Room 214 - Go, Microservices, and All the Joy [DEV2089] - [Andrzej Grzesik](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEVDEV2089)

Ags has been doing Go talks since 2010.  Who else was giving Go talks
back then.  Go's approach to polymorphism may come into play here, but
who knows.

#### 07:00 PM - 10:00 PM | Moscone South (Level 3) - The Terrace - Groundbreakers Unconference [UNC1101] - [*YOU*](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=UNC1101)

This is an unconference, so that means you get to call the shots.  I
don't know about you but after a full day of sessions I may rather drink
shots than call them, but we'll see.

### Tuesday 17 September 2019

#### 08:45 AM - 10:45 AM | Moscone South - Room 214 - Java 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13: What Have You Missed? [TUT3781] [Henri Tremblay](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=TUT3781)

Tuesday morning is the tutorial time.

Even though I've been working in Java for all of these, I so enjoy the
idea of contemporizing Java that this one looks great.

#### 11:30 AM - 12:15 PM | Moscone South - Room 203 - Java Language Futures: 2019 Edition [DEV5937] - [Brian Goetz](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV5937)

A regular technical session with Brian Goetz?  It's like TSSJS again!

#### 12:30 PM - 01:15 PM | Moscone South - Room 312 - Build Code, Build Communities, Build Lives [DEV5994] - [Mattias Karlsson, Martijn Verburg,Koichi Sakata](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV5994)

This is another "IT is a very accessible way to prosperity" session, but
I've never seen this particular group's take on it.  It may be an old
meme, but certainly not a tired one.

#### 01:30 PM - 02:15 PM | Moscone South - Room 303 - Beyond Jakarta EE 8 [DEV1391] [Mark Little, Will Lyons, Ian Robinson](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV1391)

I see this as the evolution of the Java EE BOF, which used to see
gigantic number of Java leaders sitting on a single stage.  The stage
was literally overflowing.  With only three there will be a lot more
room.

But seriously, Jakarta EE is very important to the future of Java and
this session should answer questions about how solid that future is.

#### 05:00 PM - 07:00 PM | Moscone West - Room 3024C - Lambda, Streams, and Collectors Programming Laboratory - BYOL [HOL1803] [Stuart Marks & Co.](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=HOL1803)

A HOL with Stuart Marks?  Dr. Deprecator himself?  Yes please.

#### 07:00 PM - 10:00 PM | Moscone South (Level 3) - The Terrace - Groundbreakers Unconference [UNC1104] - [*YOU*](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=UNC1104)

This is an unconference, so that means you get to call the shots.  I
don't know about you but after a full day of sessions I may rather drink
shots than call them, but we'll see.

### Wednesday 18 September 2019

#### 09:00 AM - 10:30 AM | Moscone North - Hall F - Code One Community Keynote: Game On [KEY1108] - [Vincent Mayers](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=KEY1108)

This is the first Code One since the departure of Stephen Chin from
Oracle.  As big as an event as that seemed at the time, I still remember
when John Gage had the job.  Vincent will do an excellent job.

#### 11:30 AM - 12:15 PM | Moscone South - Room 313 - Fast, Efficient Jakarta EE for the Cloud [DEV4576] - [Alasdair Nottingham, Paul Buck](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV4576)

This technical session will put some meat on the Jakarta EE skeleton.

#### 12:30 PM - 02:30 PM | Moscone West - Room 3024B - Hands-on Java EE with Docker and Kubernetes - BYOL [HOL1138] - [Reza Rahman, Ahmad Gohar, Hillmer Chona](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=HOL1138)

This technical session will bring you up to speed on using Java
Kubernetes (which of course implies Docker).

#### 02:30 PM - 03:15 PM | Moscone South - Room 308 - Machine Learning for Java Developers in 45 Minutes [DEV1260] - [Frank Greco, Zoran Sevarac](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV1260)

Frank and Zoran were leaders in the Visual Recognition JSR and have been
working in Machine Learning for several years.  This intro talk is sure
to set you up for more learning in ML.

#### 04:00 PM - 04:45 PM | Moscone South - Room 302 - Surviving Dependency Hell [DEV2715] - [Ray Tsang, Robert Scholte](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV2715)

I hope they cover the special kind of hell that results when transitive
dependencies conflict.

#### 05:00 PM - 05:45 PM | Moscone South - Room 305 - Jakarta EE Community BOF [BOF4151] - [Reza Rahman, Ivar Grimstad](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=BOF4151)

It's now or never for Jakarta EE.  EE4J was announced at [JavaOne 2017
(the last JavaOne ever)]({{ site.url }}/blog/2017/11/30/javaone-2017-wrapup.html).  Two whole years down the road, if the community has not been able to push out the first full community release, then the whole enterprise could be considered at risk. This BOF is where you can ask the tough questions about the current status and future prospects of the last best hope for community driven open standard enterprise Java.

#### 06:00 PM - 06:45 PM | Moscone South - Room 309 - Memory-Efficient Java [DEV4398] - [Kirk Pepperdine](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV4398)

I do apologize for loading this up with my Microsoft colleagues, but
Kirk is a globally recognized leader in Java memory management, and also
a great speaker.

### Thursday 19 September 2019

#### 09:00 AM - 09:45 AM | Moscone South - Room 314 - Modern Development: How Containers Are Changing Everything [DEV2849] - [Steve Poole, Andy Watson](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV2849)

This abstract features the question, "Are the days of just being able to
write code running out?".  I too have been wondering about that for a
few years now.  It seems coding now is more about connecting boxes than
it is about writing the code within them.  The component re-use heaven
has arrived, but it's not what I expected it would back when I was using
XPCOM.

#### 10:00 AM - 10:45 AM | Moscone South - Room 305 - Java on Azure BOF [BOF1167] - [Reza Rahman, Asir Selvasingh](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=BOF1167)

If you're wondering what Microsoft is doing with Java on Azure, this BOF
from my close colleagues will answer all your questions.  I'll be there
too, and can answer questions as well.

#### 11:15 AM - 12:00 PM | Moscone South - Room 206 - Mastering Regular Expressions: (^.*$)(?#everything) You Should Know [DEV6020] - [Fernando Babadopulos](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV6020)

I love Regexps.

#### 12:15 PM - 01:00 PM | Moscone South - Room 303 - Jakarta EE: A Quick Overview [DEV1049] - [Phillip Kruger, Ed Burns](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV1049)

Phillip was gracious enough to allow me to consult and contribute to
this session, but it's mostly him, and it's a good one.  The demo app is
a great tour of the most popular features in EE.

If your aversion to my talks is so strong that even the smooth Afrikaans
accent of Phillip Kruger is not enough to overcome it, I recommend this
one:

#### 12:15 PM - 01:00 PM | Moscone South - Room 203 - Enhanced Java Flight Recorder at Alibaba [DEV3667] [Sanhong Li & Co.](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV3667)

Alibaba is a huge Java shop.  These guys know how Java works there.
I'd love to see this myself.

#### 01:15 PM - 02:00 PM | Moscone South - Room 312 - Descending the Testing Pyramid: Effective Testing Strategies for Microservices [DEV1776] - [Chris Richardson](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV1776)

Chris Richardson is an expert on Microservices patterns, and an
excellent speaker.  Don't miss this one.

#### 03:15 PM - 04:00 PM | Moscone South - Room 308 - Be the Leader of Your Own Career [DEV5996] - [Bruno Souza, Thodoris Bais, Ed Burns](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV5996)

Bruno has been focusing for several years very very upstream in the
software value chain: on becoming a better developer.  This focus fits
in with mine as well, as I continue to take an interest in what makes
programming jobs so fun and rewarding.

If you've had enough career talks, I recommend this one.

#### 03:15 PM - 04:00 PM | Moscone South - Room 314 - Our Experience in Writing a Kubernetes Operator [DEV5377] - [Mark Nelson, Ryan Eberhard](https://events.rainfocus.com/widget/oracle/oow19/catalogcodeone19?search=DEV5337)

Operators are the future of the future.  These guys wrote one from the
outside in.  Their lessons are valuable.
