---
layout: post
title:  "TDC 2019 Florian√≥polis: Career Tips from Someone Who Knows a lot of Rockstar Programmers"
date:   2019-04-21 19:00 -0400
comments: false
---


![I'm speaking at TDC 2019]({{
   site.url }}/blog/assets/tdc-logo.png "I'm speaking at TDC 2019")

In my talk at 14:10 South Center Career Track, [Career Tips from Someone
Who Knows a Lot of Rockstar
Programmers](http://www.thedevelopersconference.com.br/tdc/2019/florianopolis/trilha-carreiras-e-mentoria),
I will share some of the lessons I learned from the people I interviewed
for the [Secrets of the Rockstar Programmers]({{ site.url }}) book, and
also include some tips of my own.  Though I don't claim to be a rockstar
(or the newer term "10x") programmer myself, I can honestly say I know
plenty of people that are.  This post covers a tip I've heard called
"Communicating Your Value Add".

Working for big companies such as IBM, SGI, Sun, and Oracle, I've had
the chance to sample many useful corporate trainings.  Even the most
mundane of these, such as "Insider Trading", offer at least one nugget
of novelty.  For example, the last time I took the "Insider Trading"
class, I observed that several of the ethical tests I am expected to
uphold as a corporate employee have been legally demonstrated to be
failed by my current President and several in his administration.  Such
observations make it obvious that there are different rules for
different classes of people, but I digress.  The class I want to talk
about here is one I took at Sun at least twelve years ago.  It was
called "Communicating Your Value Add" and it was all about how to
articulate your contribution to your company at focal review time.  I'm
going to put my own spin on this.

Find a partner who has skills you lack.

### Behavior/Performance-Based Questions

```
   A sampling of the types of questions that might be used to explore
   your level of accomplishment for specific skills are listed below.
   These questions provide a platform for *communcating your
   achievements* in skill areas such as leadership, decision-making,
   persuasiveness, coping, creativity, tolerance for ambiguity,
   organizational savvy, technical knowledge, and influencing.
   
   1. Describe a time when voicing your opinion was uncomfortable or
   could have had serious consequences, but you did it because you
   believed so strongly in the value of your perspective.
   
   2. What was the most creative idea you introduced on the job?  How
   did you persuade your superior?.
   
   3. Give me an example of the most complex project/assignment you have
   had, including your role and the outcome.
   
   4. Describe a situation at work when you had to make a decision and
   were uncertain about the outcome.
   
   5. What do you when you are communicating with someone and it becomes
   apparent that they don't understand what you are saying or vice
   versa?
   
   6. Describe a situation in which you developed a group into a strong
   working team?
   
   7. Communication and leadership go hand in hand.  Tell me about a
   time when your communication skills enabled you to influence the way
   others thought or acted, even in a very difficult situation.
   
   8. What important goals have you set in the past, and how were you
   able to work towards accomplishing them successfully?
   
   9. Describe how you delegate responsibility in your current job.
   
   10 Have you ever had to take over a leadership role unexpectedly?
   How did it work out?
   
   11. Sometimes it is important to disagree with others, particularly
   your boss, in order to prevent a mistake from being made.  Tell me
   about a time when you were willing to disagree with another person in
   order to build a positive outcome.
   
   12. Describe a time when you had to sell an idea to your boss or
   another authority figure.
   
   13. Give me an example taken from your experiences in report writing,
   preparation of memos, or general correspondence which illustrates
   the extent of your written communication skills.
   
   14. Building rapport can be a very challenging thing to do.  Give an
   example of a time when you were able to build rapport with an
   individual or group at work, even when the situation was difficult
   and the odds were against you.
   
   15. Solving problems requires more than good plans, it means taking
   action.  Give me an example of a time when you were able to take
   meaningful action in resolving a problem.
   
   16. In many problem situations, it is often tempting to jump to a
   conclusion to build a solution quickly.  Tell me about at time when
   you resisted this temptation and obtained all the facts about the
   problem before coming to a decision.
   
   17. Sometimes it is necessary to work in unsettled or rapidly
   changing circumstances.  When have you found yourself in this
   position?  Tell me exactly whay you did.
   
   18. Solving a problem often necessitates evalutation of alternative
   solutions. Give me an example of a time when you actively defined
   several solutions to a single problem using any tools such as
   research, brainstorming, or mathematics.
   
   19. Just about anybody can give a routine, standard answer to common
   problems; however, the payoff is often in the development of unique
   solutions to common problems.  Give me an example of one of your
   unique problem solutions.
   
   20. Describe an assigmnent that represented a unique challenge to
   you.
   
   21. Tell me about a time when you had to cope with strict deadlines
   or time demands.
   
```

### Performance Review Questions

The pre-discussion forms include the questions below which are listed
   under the following categories: Results, Quality, Reliability,
   Leadership, Decision Making, Functional/Technical Skills & Knowledge,
   Communication and Teamwork, and Resourcefulness & Creativity.

```

   22. Based on established goals and objectives, for our group, what
   results did you achieve?  If a goal changed, how much progress did
   you make toward the revised goal?
   
   23. What additional contributions did you make?  Were there
   accoplishments that were definitely outstanding?
   
   24. What examples can you recall of instances in which you were
   responsive to your customer or successful in completing a quality
   job?
   
   25. What leadership and decision making abilities have you
   demonstrated?
   
   26. Give me an example of a major decision you've made and the
   outcome.
   
   27. Give me an example of any project you have led and the outcome.
   
   28. How have you improved existing processes and procedures?
   
   29. In what ways have you added unique value to your job?
   
   30. Give me an example of when you have demonstrated technical or
   functional expertise.
   
   31. Tell me about what measures you have taken to ensure that your
   skills are state-of-the-art.
   
   32. Give me an example of an effective presentation you have made.
   
   33. Give me an example of how cooperative interaction with other
   members of the Sun team have been a part of your work.
   
   34. Give me an example of a time when others have been able to count
   on your "being-there" time after time, project after project.
   
   35. Give me an example of when you used strategic thinking in moving
   toward achieving a goal.

```
