---
layout: post
title:  "JavaLand 2019 Conference Picks"
date:   2019-03-11 17:30 -0400
comments: true
---


![I'm teaching at JavaLand 2019]({{
   site.url }}/blog/assets/JavaLand-2019-Banner-800x643-Twitter-Schulungspartner-ENG.jpg "I'm teaching at JavaLand 2019")

It's time for my favorite of the year: JavaLand!  This year I have the
great blessing to be [giving the Tuesday
keynote](https://www.heise.de/developer/artikel/Ed-Burns-Container-waren-zur-rechten-Zeit-am-rechten-Ort-4303141.html).
I consider it a great honor to be in such esteemed company as Martin
Thompson, Holly Cummins, Adam Gowdiak (though I shan't be dissing on
anyone's [security
practices](http://www.security-explorations.com/materials/se-javaland.pdf)),
and other past keynote speakers.  I hope I'm up to the task.  I've been
[practicing]({{ site.url }}/blog/2019/01/29/ojug-2019-02-27.html).  

I also am very happy to be teaching a class with my long time training
partner Oliver Szymanski.  This year we are teaching about [Docker and
Kubernetes](https://programm.javaland.eu/2019/#/scheduledEvent/569084).
The title of the workshop is "Cloud Perspective: Kubernetes is like an
App Server, but more Cloudy", but I saw a funny tweet last week that
sums it up more humorously: [Kubernetes is the Websphere of the
millenials](https://twitter.com/spezam/status/1104293618720878595).

This post lists my conference session picks.  I hope to attend as many
of these as possible, but there is so much going on that I may not be
able to make it.  There were many times when multiple sessions that I
want to attend were scheduled at the same time, apologies to the
speakers of the one's not chosen.  Take a look at [program
yourself](https://programm.javaland.eu/2019/#/schedule).

### Tuesday 

#### 08:30 Wintergarden - Test Driven Architecture - [Peter Gafert](https://twitter.com/codecholeric)

This talk promises to take what we all love about TDD and apply it to
microservices based architectures.  This seems a tall order, so I'm keen
to see what it's about.

#### 11:00 Wintergarden - Community-Controlled Jakarta EE with JAX-RS and MVC - [Christan Kaltepoth and friends](https://twitter.com/chkal)

It's been more than two years since Jakarta EE was announced and things
are really rolling now.  MVC is a great example of what can be done in
this new approach to developing the standard for enterprise Java.

#### 12:00 Rotunde - Master your Java Applications in Kubernetes - [Andy Moncsek](https://twitter.com/AndyAHCP)

Ever since seeing Ray Tsang's talk about [Docker Tips and Tricks]({{
site.url }}/blog/2017/02/23/ray-tsang-docker-tips-notes.html) at
DevNexus 2017, people have been trying to avoid pitfall when combining
Java and Docker.  I think the same things need to be said about Java and
Kubernetes, and I expect Andy will say them.

#### 13:00 STOCKs - Jenkins X Continuously Driving the Kloud - [Gerd Aschemann](https://twitter.com/GerdAschemann)

I vividly remember the first time Kohsuke showed my Hudson, back in 2005
or so.  Even back then, it was clear that CI was going to be the way
things work in the future.  Nowadays, the CI space is more crowded than
ever: TravisCI, GitLab, CircleCI, and many many more.  I'd like to see
what Gerd has to say about the state of Jenkins and the new Jenkins X.

#### 14:00 TIE: 

I can't let a JavaLand go by without seeing a talk by [Das
Niko](https://twitter.com/dasniko), but on the other hand, [Sven
Peters](https://twitter.com/svenpet) is also a very excellent speaker,
with a compelling topic.  So I'll list both and see which one I can
make.

##### 14:00 Silverado Theater - Das Geheimnis erfolgreicher Teams - [Sven Peters](https://twitter.com/svenpet)

Having written and thought extensively about so-called Rockstar
Programmers, and in particular their role in successful teams, I want to
hear what Sven has to say about the whole thing.

##### 14:00 Schauspielhaus - Container vs. Serverless - the Good, the Bad & the Ugly - [Das Niko](https://twitter.com/dasniko)

I love Niko's talks because he sticks straight to the technical, and
he's not afraid to challenge conventional wisdom.  That always makes for
a good talk.

#### 15:00 Quantum 1+2 - Visual Studio Code for Java and Spring Devs - [Bruno Borges](https://twitter.com/brunoborges)

This quote alone from the abstract is striking for its honesty and
candor: "Installing the right extensions in VS Code results in a
powerful yet lightweight code editing experience that comes close to the
feature richness of existing Java IDEs."  Having been experienced with
NetBeans and, to a lesser extent IntelliJ idea, I am certainly willing
to try other tools.  Let's see what VS Code for Java has to show.

#### 16:00 Lecture Tent - Datenflut: Ertrinken oder auf der Welle reiten? [Tanja Schmidt](https://programm.javaland.eu/2019/#/speaker/382558)

I'm excited to understand how to go fishing in a Data Lake.  I expect
Tanja will explain it all and more.

#### 17:00 Wintergarden - Panel: Zukunft Java

There is a lot to talk about here. Knowing
[Hendrik](https://twitter.com/hendrikEbbers) it will be entertaining and
informative.

#### 18:00 Quantum 1+2 - The Future of Java and You - [Heather Vancura](https://twitter.com/heathervc)

If you've wondered about the continuing role of the JCP in a world where
plain-ole-Open Source (PooS) and the Jakarta Project are also valid
governance choices, this talk should answer your questions.

#### 19:00 Wintergarden - Revisiting Effective Java in 2019 [Edson Yanaga](https://twitter.com/yanaga)

I've long felt that Java's biggest education problem is the challenge of
teaching only the good stuff.  The classic book on which this talk is
based does that very well.  I look forward to hearing Edson's
perspective on Josh Bloch's java gem.

### Wednesday

#### 09:00 Rotunde - Welcome Failure Leichter gesagt als getan! [Sabine Wojcieszak](https://twitter.com/SabineBendixen)

I've never seen a session from this speaker, but she seems like an
excellent speaker and the talk promises to tease apart blame from
responsibility.  It's an ambitious agenda for 40 minutes, but a great
chance to meet and talk about this important topic more, perhaps over an
ice cream across the way from Quantum 1+2.

#### 10:00 Schauspielhaus - Wie fit ist Java für die Cloud? - [Roland Huß](https://www.twitter.com/ro14nd)

I'm choosing this talk just based on the experience of the speaker and
the topic.  Roland is the man behing the Docker Maven Plugin.  I expect
to see a critical assesment of Java and the cloud.

#### 11:00 Silverado - Community-Keynote: Kampf der Giganten

The community keynote at JavaOne is often a humorous and informative
look at what's has happened in the Java community in the past year.  I
expect this will be similar.  I've been invited to participate!

#### 12:00 STOCKs - Kubernetes Runtime Security: When Contaniers Go Bad - [Jen Tong](https://twitter.com/MimmingCodes)

Knowing how many people allow their Docker `ENTRYPOINT` to run as root,
I'm curious to see what Jen has to say about security in containers.

#### 13:00 Quantum 1+2 - Java WebStart ist tot - Wie geht es nun weiter? - [Hendrik Ebbers](https://twitter.com/hendrikEbbers)

I have nothing to do with client side Java any more, but I remember
really loving Java WebStart back in the day.  I wonder where it will go
now?

#### 14:00 STOCKs - When Technology and humanly collides - [Marieme Jamme](https://twitter.com/mjamme)

We need more talks like this about the societal impact of what we do as
programmers.  I can't wait to see this one.  Even though the abstract is
very sparse, I'm sure it's worth attending.

#### 15:00 Schauspielhaus - Java-Hacker und Zwillingsmama - [Martina Baumer](https://programm.javaland.eu/2019/#/speaker/381980)

Work and life balance was a theme I explored in the Rockstar Programmer
book.  Unfortunately, all the people I interviewed were men.  I can't
wait to see Martina's female perspectives on this important topic.

#### 16:00 Quantum 3+4 - Testing Java Microservices - [Andy Gumbrecht](https://twitter.com/AndyGeeDe)

Andy has written an excellent book from which he is extracting this
talk.  I've seen it before and it's great.  You should see it too.

#### 17:00 Wintergarden - The Dark Side of Java 8 - [Grzegorz Piwowarek](https://twitter.com/pivovarit)

I love to get outside perspectives on the success or failure of our Java
releases.  I'm wondering what he thinks is wrong with the Stream API?
We'll see!
